\input texinfo    @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename gf2x.info
@documentencoding UTF-8
@include version.texi
@settitle gf2x @value{VERSION}
@synindex tp fn
@comment %**end of header

@copying
This manual describes how to install and use the gf2x
library, version @value{VERSION}.

Copyright 2007-2023 
Richard Brent, Pierrick Gaudry, Emmanuel Thomé, Paul Zimmermann

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of either:
- If the archive contains a file named toom-gpl.c (not a trivial
placeholder), the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.
- If the archive contains a file named toom-gpl.c which is a trivial
placeholder, the GNU Lesser General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2.1 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the license text for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License as
well as the GNU Lesser General Public License along with this program;
see the files COPYING and COPYING.LIB.  If not, write to the Free
Software Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA
02110-1301, USA.

@end copying

@dircategory Libraries
@direntry
* gf2x: (gf2x). gf2x Library (computations in GF(2)[x])
@end direntry

@c  html <meta name="description" content="...">
@documentdescription
How to install and use the gf2x library, version @value{VERSION}.
@end documentdescription

@c smallbook
@finalout
@setchapternewpage on

@node Top, Copying, (dir), (dir)
@top gf2x

@insertcopying
@sp 1

@menu
* Copying::                    gf2x Copying Conditions (LGPL).
* Introduction to gf2x::       Brief introduction to gf2x.
* Installing gf2x::            How to build and install the gf2x library
* Reporting bugs::             Just in case
* Data types::                 Data type for polynomials over GF(2)
* Multiplication::             The main gf2x interfaces
* FFT interface::              The FFT interface
* C++ interface::              FFT and C++
* Low-level routines::         Mutliplying small polynomials efficiently
* Helping out::                Participate in the development of gf2x
* Function Index::
@end menu

@node Copying, Introduction to gf2x, Top, Top
@unnumbered gf2x Copying Conditions
@cindex Copying conditions
@cindex Conditions for copying gf2x
@cindex License conditions

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of either:
- If the archive contains a file named toom-gpl.c (not a trivial
placeholder), the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.
- If the archive contains a file named toom-gpl.c which is a trivial
placeholder, the GNU Lesser General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2.1 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the license text for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License as well
as the GNU Lesser General Public License along with this library; see the
files @file{COPYING} and @file{COPYING.LIB}.  If not, write to the Free
Software Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA
02110-1301, USA.

@node Introduction to gf2x, Installing gf2x, Copying, Top

gf2x fulfills just one mission: multiplying polynomials over GF(2)[x],
both small and large ones.

Because coefficients of polynomials over GF(2) are simply bits, a packed
representation is necessary. In a way, multiplying polynomials over GF(2)
is like multiplying integers, except that you strip away all the carry
propagation. Yet no specialized software library provides access to fast
algorithms for doing this. gf2x fills this gap.

gf2x takes advantage of both low-level assembly instuctions when they
happen to be available, as well as advanced algorithms for the job.
@itemize @bullet
@item Assembly instruction for ``carry-less'' multiplication on 64-bit
Intel CPUs
@item Fine-tuned multiplication routines for small polynomials.
@item Karatsuba and Toom-Cook algorithms
@item Quasi-linear operations with FFT algorithms (both ternary FFT and
Cantor additive FFT).
@item Access to low-level parts of the FFT operations.
@end itemize

For up-to-date information on gf2x, and for the latest version of the
library, please see the Git repository page at

@display
@uref{https://gitlab.inria.fr/gf2x/gf2x/}
@end display

@cindex Mailing lists
There is a mailing list called @email{gf2x@@inria.fr}. Traffic is
extremely low. See @ref{Reporting bugs} for information about reporting
bugs.

Being mostly a one-man project, gf2x is never complete. There is
significant room for improvement in multiple aspects of the library. See
@ref{Helping out} if you're interested in participating in the
development.

@node Installing gf2x, Reporting bugs, Introduction to gf2x, Top



@node Reporting bugs, Data types, Installing gf2x, Top
@node Data types, Multiplication, Reporting bugs, Top
@node Multiplication, FFT interface, Data types, Top
@node FFT interface, C++ interface, Multiplication, Top
@node C++ interface, Low-level routines, FFT interface, Top
@node Low-level routines, Helping out, C++ interface, Top
@node Helping out, Function Index, Low-level routines, Top

fat binary

carry-less mul on other archs

Gao-Mateer, done better
https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1109/TIT.2010.2079016

https://arxiv.org/abs/1503.05761

https://arxiv.org/abs/1708.09746
https://github.com/fast-crypto-lab/bitpolymul


@node Function Index, , Helping out, Top
@unnumbered Function and Type Index
@printindex fn

